README.adoc, before:

# Eventuate Tram Customers and Orders

This application demonstrates two key patterns:

* http://microservices.io/patterns/data/saga.html[Sagas] - implement transactions that span services
* http://microservices.io/patterns/data/cqrs.html[CQRS] - implement queries that retrieve data from multiple services.

The application consists of three services:

* `Order Service` - manages orders
* `Customer Service` - manages customers
* `Order History Service` - maintains the order history

All services are implemented using Spring Boot, JPA and the https://github.com/eventuate-tram/eventuate-tram-core[Eventuate Tram framework], which provides transactional publish/subscribe.

The `Order Service` uses a choreography-based saga to enforce the customer's credit limit when creating orders.

The `Order History Service` implements a CQRS view and subscribes to domain events published by the `Order Service` and `Customer Service`

== About Sagas

http://microservices.io/patterns/data/saga.html[Sagas] are a mechanism for maintaining data consistency in a http://microservices.io/patterns/microservices.html[microservice architecture].
A saga is a sequence of transactions, each of which is local to a service.

There are two main ways to coordinate sagas: orchestration and choreography.
This example uses choreography-based sagas, which use domain events for coordination.
Each step of a saga updates the local database and publishes a domain event.
The domain event is processed by an event handler, which performs the next local transaction.

To learn more about why you need sagas if you are using microservices:

* Look at the https://github.com/eventuate-tram/eventuate-tram-sagas-examples-customers-and-orders[Orchestration-based saga example]
* Read the http://microservices.io/patterns/data/saga.html[Saga pattern]
* Look at https://microservices.io/microservices/general/2019/04/28/asynchronous-microservices.html[MicroCPH 2019 presentation]
* Read about sagas in my https://microservices.io/book[Microservices patterns book]

=== The Create Order saga

The saga for creating an `Order` consists of the follow steps:

1. The Order Service creates an `Order` in a `PENDING` state and publishes an `OrderCreated` event
2. The `Customer Service` receives the event attempts to reserve credit for that `Order`. It publishes either a `Credit Reserved` event or a `CreditLimitExceeded` event.
3. The `Order Service` receives the event and changes the state of the order to either `APPROVED` or `REJECTED`.

== About Command Query Responsibility Segregation (CQRS)

The http://microservices.io/patterns/data/cqrs.html[CQRS pattern] implements queries that retrieves data from multiple services.
It maintains a queryable replica of the data by subscribing to domain events published by the services that own the data.

In this example, the `Order History Service`  maintains a CQRS view in MongoDB by subscribing to domain events published by the `Order Service` and `Customer Service`.
The CQRS view stores each customer as a MongoDB document that contains information the customer and their orders.

To learn more about why you need CQRS if you are using microservices:

* Read the http://microservices.io/patterns/data/cqrs.html[CQRS pattern]
* Look at https://microservices.io/microservices/general/2019/04/28/asynchronous-microservices.html[GOTO Chicago 2019 presentation]
* Read about CQRS in my https://microservices.io/book[Microservices patterns book]

== Transactional messaging with Eventuate Tram

The services uses the https://github.com/eventuate-tram/eventuate-tram-core[Eventuate Tram framework] to communicate asynchronously using events.
The flow for publishing a domain event using Eventuate Tram is as follows:

1. Eventuate Tram inserts events into the `MESSAGE` table as part of the ACID transaction that updates the JPA entity.
2. The Eventuate Tram CDC service tracks inserts into the `MESSAGE` table using the MySQL binlog (or Postgres WAL) and publishes messages to Apache Kafka.
3. A service subscribes to the events, updates its database, and possibly publishes more events.

== Architecture

The following diagram shows the architecture of the Customers and Orders application.

image::./images/Eventuate_Tram_Customer_and_Order_Architecture.png[]

The application consists of three services: `Customer Service`, `Order Service`, and `Order History Service`




=== Customer Service

The `Customer Service` implements a REST API for managing customers.
The service persists the `Customer` JPA entity in a MySQL/Postgres database.
Using `Eventuate Tram`, it publishes `Customer` domain events that are consumed by the `Order Service`.

For more information, see the link:./customer-service-canvas.adoc[microservice canvas for the `Customer Service`].

image::./customer-service-canvas.png[width=300]


=== Order Service

The `Order Service` implements REST API for managing orders.
The service persists the `Order` JPA entity in MySQL/Postgres database.
Using `Eventuate Tram`, it publishes `Order` domain events that are consumed by the `Customer Service`.

For more information, see the link:./order-service-canvas.adoc[microservice canvas for the `Order Service`].

image::./order-service-canvas.png[width=300]

=== Order History Service

The `Order History Service` implements REST API for querying a customer's order history
This service subscribes to events published by the `Order Service` and `Customer Service` and updates a MongoDB-based CQRS view.

For more information, see the link:./order-history-service-canvas.adoc[microservice canvas for the `Order History Service`].

image::./order-history-service-canvas.png[width=300]

== Building and running

Note: you do not need to install Gradle since it will be downloaded automatically.
You just need to have Java 8 installed.

First, build the application

```
./gradlew assemble
```

Next, launch the services using https://docs.docker.com/compose/[Docker Compose]:

```
export DOCKER_HOST_IP=...
docker-compose -f docker-compose-mysql-binlog.yml build
docker-compose -f docker-compose-mysql-binlog.yml up -d
```

Note:

1. You can also run the Postgres version using `docker-compose-eventuate-postgres-wal.yml`
2. You need to set `DOCKER_HOST_IP` before running Docker Compose.
This must be an IP address or resolvable hostname.
It cannot be `localhost`.
See this http://eventuate.io/docs/usingdocker.html[guide to setting `DOCKER_HOST_IP`] for more information.

== Using the application

Once the application has started, you can use the application via the Swagger UI:

* `Customer Service` - `http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8082/swagger-ui.html`
* `Order Service` - `http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8081/swagger-ui.html`
* `Order History Service` - `http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8083/swagger-ui.html`

You can also use `curl` to interact with the services.
First, let's create a customer:

```bash
$ curl -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "creditLimit": {
    "amount": 5
  },
  "name": "Jane Doe"
}' http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8082/customers

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8

{
  "customerId": 1
}
```

Next, create an order:

```bash
$ curl -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "customerId": 1,
  "orderTotal": {
    "amount": 4
  }
}' http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8081/orders

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8

{
  "orderId": 1
}

```

Next, check the status of the `Order` in the `Order Service`:

```bash
$ curl -X GET http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8081/orders/1

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8

{
  "orderId": 1,
  "orderState": "APPROVED"
}
```

Finally, look at the customer's order history in the `Order History Service`:

```bash
$ curl -X GET --header "Accept: */*" "http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8083/customers/1"

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8

{
  "id": 1,
  "orders": {
    "1": {
      "state": "APPROVED",
      "orderTotal": {
        "amount": 4
      }
    }
  },
  "name": "Chris",
  "creditLimit": {
    "amount": 100
  }
}
```

== Got questions?

Don't hesitate to create an issue or see

* https://groups.google.com/d/forum/eventuate-users[Mailing list]
* https://join.slack.com/t/eventuate-users/shared_invite/enQtNTM4NjE0OTMzMDQ3LTc3ZjYzYjYxOGViNTdjMThkZmVmNWQzZWMwZmQyYzhjNjQ4OTE4YzJiYTE2NDdlOTljMDFlMDlkYTI2OWU1NTk[Slack Workspace]
* http://eventuate.io/contact.html[Contact us].

Commit message:

docker image versions moved to gradle

README.adoc, after:

# Eventuate Tram Customers and Orders

This application demonstrates two key patterns:

* http://microservices.io/patterns/data/saga.html[Sagas] - implement transactions that span services
* http://microservices.io/patterns/data/cqrs.html[CQRS] - implement queries that retrieve data from multiple services.

The application consists of three services:

* `Order Service` - manages orders
* `Customer Service` - manages customers
* `Order History Service` - maintains the order history

All services are implemented using Spring Boot, JPA and the https://github.com/eventuate-tram/eventuate-tram-core[Eventuate Tram framework], which provides transactional publish/subscribe.

The `Order Service` uses a choreography-based saga to enforce the customer's credit limit when creating orders.

The `Order History Service` implements a CQRS view and subscribes to domain events published by the `Order Service` and `Customer Service`

== About Sagas

http://microservices.io/patterns/data/saga.html[Sagas] are a mechanism for maintaining data consistency in a http://microservices.io/patterns/microservices.html[microservice architecture].
A saga is a sequence of transactions, each of which is local to a service.

There are two main ways to coordinate sagas: orchestration and choreography.
This example uses choreography-based sagas, which use domain events for coordination.
Each step of a saga updates the local database and publishes a domain event.
The domain event is processed by an event handler, which performs the next local transaction.

To learn more about why you need sagas if you are using microservices:

* Look at the https://github.com/eventuate-tram/eventuate-tram-sagas-examples-customers-and-orders[Orchestration-based saga example]
* Read the http://microservices.io/patterns/data/saga.html[Saga pattern]
* Look at https://microservices.io/microservices/general/2019/04/28/asynchronous-microservices.html[MicroCPH 2019 presentation]
* Read about sagas in my https://microservices.io/book[Microservices patterns book]

=== The Create Order saga

The saga for creating an `Order` consists of the follow steps:

1. The Order Service creates an `Order` in a `PENDING` state and publishes an `OrderCreated` event
2. The `Customer Service` receives the event attempts to reserve credit for that `Order`. It publishes either a `Credit Reserved` event or a `CreditLimitExceeded` event.
3. The `Order Service` receives the event and changes the state of the order to either `APPROVED` or `REJECTED`.

== About Command Query Responsibility Segregation (CQRS)

The http://microservices.io/patterns/data/cqrs.html[CQRS pattern] implements queries that retrieves data from multiple services.
It maintains a queryable replica of the data by subscribing to domain events published by the services that own the data.

In this example, the `Order History Service`  maintains a CQRS view in MongoDB by subscribing to domain events published by the `Order Service` and `Customer Service`.
The CQRS view stores each customer as a MongoDB document that contains information the customer and their orders.

To learn more about why you need CQRS if you are using microservices:

* Read the http://microservices.io/patterns/data/cqrs.html[CQRS pattern]
* Look at https://microservices.io/microservices/general/2019/04/28/asynchronous-microservices.html[GOTO Chicago 2019 presentation]
* Read about CQRS in my https://microservices.io/book[Microservices patterns book]

== Transactional messaging with Eventuate Tram

The services uses the https://github.com/eventuate-tram/eventuate-tram-core[Eventuate Tram framework] to communicate asynchronously using events.
The flow for publishing a domain event using Eventuate Tram is as follows:

1. Eventuate Tram inserts events into the `MESSAGE` table as part of the ACID transaction that updates the JPA entity.
2. The Eventuate Tram CDC service tracks inserts into the `MESSAGE` table using the MySQL binlog (or Postgres WAL) and publishes messages to Apache Kafka.
3. A service subscribes to the events, updates its database, and possibly publishes more events.

== Architecture

The following diagram shows the architecture of the Customers and Orders application.

image::./images/Eventuate_Tram_Customer_and_Order_Architecture.png[]

The application consists of three services: `Customer Service`, `Order Service`, and `Order History Service`




=== Customer Service

The `Customer Service` implements a REST API for managing customers.
The service persists the `Customer` JPA entity in a MySQL/Postgres database.
Using `Eventuate Tram`, it publishes `Customer` domain events that are consumed by the `Order Service`.

For more information, see the link:./customer-service-canvas.adoc[microservice canvas for the `Customer Service`].

image::./customer-service-canvas.png[width=300]


=== Order Service

The `Order Service` implements REST API for managing orders.
The service persists the `Order` JPA entity in MySQL/Postgres database.
Using `Eventuate Tram`, it publishes `Order` domain events that are consumed by the `Customer Service`.

For more information, see the link:./order-service-canvas.adoc[microservice canvas for the `Order Service`].

image::./order-service-canvas.png[width=300]

=== Order History Service

The `Order History Service` implements REST API for querying a customer's order history
This service subscribes to events published by the `Order Service` and `Customer Service` and updates a MongoDB-based CQRS view.

For more information, see the link:./order-history-service-canvas.adoc[microservice canvas for the `Order History Service`].

image::./order-history-service-canvas.png[width=300]

== Building and running

Note: you do not need to install Gradle since it will be downloaded automatically.
You just need to have Java 8 installed.

First, build the application

```
./gradlew assemble
```

Next, launch the services using https://docs.docker.com/compose/[Docker Compose]:

```
export DOCKER_HOST_IP=...
./gradlew mysqlbinlogComposeBuild
./gradlew mysqlbinlogComposeUp
```

Note:

1. You can also run the Postgres version using `./gradlew postgrespollingComposeUp` or `./gradlew postgreswalComposeUp`
2. You need to set `DOCKER_HOST_IP` before running Docker Compose.
This must be an IP address or resolvable hostname.
It cannot be `localhost`.
See this http://eventuate.io/docs/usingdocker.html[guide to setting `DOCKER_HOST_IP`] for more information.

== Using the application

Once the application has started, you can use the application via the Swagger UI:

* `Customer Service` - `http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8082/swagger-ui.html`
* `Order Service` - `http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8081/swagger-ui.html`
* `Order History Service` - `http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8083/swagger-ui.html`

You can also use `curl` to interact with the services.
First, let's create a customer:

```bash
$ curl -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "creditLimit": {
    "amount": 5
  },
  "name": "Jane Doe"
}' http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8082/customers

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8

{
  "customerId": 1
}
```

Next, create an order:

```bash
$ curl -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "customerId": 1,
  "orderTotal": {
    "amount": 4
  }
}' http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8081/orders

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8

{
  "orderId": 1
}

```

Next, check the status of the `Order` in the `Order Service`:

```bash
$ curl -X GET http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8081/orders/1

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8

{
  "orderId": 1,
  "orderState": "APPROVED"
}
```

Finally, look at the customer's order history in the `Order History Service`:

```bash
$ curl -X GET --header "Accept: */*" "http://${DOCKER_HOST_IP}:8083/customers/1"

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8

{
  "id": 1,
  "orders": {
    "1": {
      "state": "APPROVED",
      "orderTotal": {
        "amount": 4
      }
    }
  },
  "name": "Chris",
  "creditLimit": {
    "amount": 100
  }
}
```

== Got questions?

Don't hesitate to create an issue or see

* https://groups.google.com/d/forum/eventuate-users[Mailing list]
* https://join.slack.com/t/eventuate-users/shared_invite/enQtNTM4NjE0OTMzMDQ3LTc3ZjYzYjYxOGViNTdjMThkZmVmNWQzZWMwZmQyYzhjNjQ4OTE4YzJiYTE2NDdlOTljMDFlMDlkYTI2OWU1NTk[Slack Workspace]
* http://eventuate.io/contact.html[Contact us].
